# Contest Requirements

1. **The solution shall use a minimum of Java 7 and a maximum of Java 8.**

The solution has been tested and works correctly on Java 8. 

2. **The solution shall test executables in the form of Java Jars via the command line.**

The solution accepts executables in the form of Java JARs through the `-jarToTestPath <jar to test path here>` argument.

3. **The solution shall increase code coverage of the Software Under Test (SUT) via exploratory black box testing.**

The solution implements a variety of tests that aim to increase code coverage.

4. **The solution shall increase the number of unique exceptions generated by the SUT via exploratory black box testing.**

The solution implements a variety of tests that aim to increase unique exceptions.

5. **The solution shall accept the path of the executable jar to test as a required command line argument in the form of: -jarToTestPath <jar to test path here>.**

The solution accepts the path of the executable jar through the `-jarToTestPath <jar to test path here>` parameter.

6. **The solution shall accept the path to the directory where jacoco will generate output files as a required command line argument in the form of: -jacocoOutputPath <jacoco output dir path here>.**

The solution accepts a path to the directory where jacoco will generate output files using the `-jacocoOutputPath <jacoco output dir path here>` argument. If this is not specified, the solution automatically generates a temporary directory and deletes it after the solution is finished running.

7. **The solution shall accept the path of the jacoco agent jar in the form of: -jacocoAgentJarPath <jacoco agent jar path here>.**

The solution accepts a path to the JaCoCo agent JAR using the `-jacocoAgentJarPath <jacoco agent jar path here>` argument. If this is not specified, the solution extracts a copy of the JAR to a temporary directory, then deletes the directory after all tests are finished.

8. **The solution shall execute the specified number of exploratory black box test iterations (default 1000) against the SUT.**

The solution accepts a specified number of black box tests through the `-bbTests <number of tests here>` argument. If this argument is not given, it defaults to 1000 iterations.

9. **The solution shall run additional exploratory black box test iterations, if the specified number of exploratory black box test iterations completes within a specified test time goal (default 5 minutes).**

The solution accepts a test time goal through the `-timeGoal <number of minutes here>` argument, as described in requirement 11, and a number of black-box testing iterations through the `-bbTests <number of tests here>` argument, as described in requirement 11. If the number of black-box iterations is met before the time goal is reached, then additional black-box tests are generated until the time goal is reached. If the time goal is a negative value, the program will stop once the number of black-box iterations has been met.

10. **The solution shall accept the number of exploratory black box tests to run as an optional command line argument in the form of: -bbTests <number of tests here>.**

The solution accepts a specified number of black box tests through the `-bbTests <number of tests here>` argument. If this argument is not given, it defaults to 1000 iterations. The black-box tests executed consist of tests generated using various random algorithms.

11. **The solution shall accept the test time goal as an optional command line argument in the form of: -timeGoal <number of minutes here>.**

The solution accepts a test time goal through the `-timeGoal <number of minutes here>` argument. If this argument is not given, it defaults to 5 minutes (300 seconds).

12. **The solution shall support applications that take a fixed number of arguments.**

The solution is able to generate black-box tests from TestBounds classes that use a "fixed parameter list" through the FixedParameterFactory class.

13. **The solution shall support applications that take a variable number of arguments.**

The solution is able to generate black-box tests from TestBounds classes that use a "dependent parameter map" through the DependentParameterFactory class.

14. **The solution shall support integer arguments.**

The solution is able to generate black-box tests from integer arguments, represented by the ParameterType.IntegerType class.

15. **The solution shall support double arguments.**

The solution is able to generate black-box tests from double arguments, represented by the ParameterType.DoubleType class.

16. **The solution shall support bounded String arguments.**

The solution is able to generate black-box tests from bounded string arguments, which are handled independently by the Parameter class.

17. **The solution shall support unbounded String arguments.**

The solution is able to generate black-box tests from unbounded string arguments, represented by the ParameterType.StringType class.

18. **The solution shall record unique exceptions or crashes seen during exploratory testing.**

The solution records unique exceptions and prints them out in the YAML report, as well as in the HTML output if the `-html` argument is given.

19. **The solution shall print to stdout a YAML report at the end of testing that is in the following format:**
```
Total predefined tests run: <count here>
Number of predefined tests that passed: <count here>
Number of predefined tests that failed: <count here>
Total code coverage percentage: <percentage as a double here>
Unique error count: <count here>
Errors seen:
- <Exception or crash information here>
- <Exception or crash information here>
- <Exception or crash information here>
```

The solution prints out the information indicated above in YAML format.

20. **The solution shall accept an optional command line argument of the form "-toolChain" that will limit the output to contain only the parseable YAML indicated above.**

If the `-toolChain` argument is given, the solution only prints out the YAML indicated above, or an error message if the solution was not able to execute successfully.

21. **The solution shall be delivered as an executable jar with the name com.idtus.contest.winter2017.framework.jar.**

A link has been given in the email to download the executable jar file. The jar file is also automatically generated with this name when you run `mvn package`.

22. **The solution shall also be delivered as an Maven Project in Eclipse (zipped up) with the name com.idtus.contest.winter2017.framework.zip.**

A link has been given in the email to download the zipped up source code.
